# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
  A. In console.rb - lines 6 and 15

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
  A. In properties.sql, within the DB folder

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
  A. 13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
  A. id's are of type SERIAL and are automatically assigned when instantiated and saved, they also auto_increment so no need for our instructions

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
  A. In property.rb using the following command:     @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
  A. If the instance has not been saved yet there will be no id generated and the code will break without the 'if' in those cases

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
  A. An instandfe method, such as 'save()' is called on each instance of the class, whereas a class method such as 'Propert.all()' will be called against all instances of that class

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
  A. We are returned a hash, within an array. To access the actual value we access the array using [0], then the key of the hash ['id'] and this gives us a string value which we convert to an integer using 'to_i'

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
  A. This is primarily for security reasons so outside influences cannot affect our database malitiously.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

Q11. What are their return values?
